Update serverless docs to use qiskit patterns (#365)
Qiskit/documentation: docs/run/quantum-serverless.mdx

---
title: Run Qiskit Patterns with Quantum Serverless
description: Run Qiskit Patterns with Quantum Serverless
---

> # Run Qiskit Patterns with Quantum Serverless

Reviewer: Can we go back to "workloads" for just this section title and also the above page title and description? Since "Qiskit Pattern" isn't yet introduced and isn't a widely known concept yet, it may be better to use a more familiar word for the start of this page

> # Run workloads with Quantum Serverless

Reviewer: Here and in the above "title" and "description" lines can we add "remotely":
```
# Run workloads remotely with Quantum Serverless
```

Premium users can build, deploy, and run their workloads remotely on classical compute made available through the IBM Quantum Platform.

> Try out the tutorials in [IBM Quantum Learning](https://learning.quantum.ibm.com/catalog/tutorials?topics=qiskit-patterns) and explore more of the features of Quantum Serverless in the [documentation](https://qiskit-extensions.github.io/quantum-serverless/).

Reviewer: Right after the quantum learning link, we should add a parenthetical note along the lines of:

> Try out the tutorials in [IBM Quantum Learning](https://learning.quantum.ibm.com/catalog/tutorials?topics=qiskit-patterns) (note: these are accessible in the Premium Plan once you have logged into your IBM Quantum account) and explore more of the features of Quantum Serverless in the [open-source documentation](https://qiskit-extensions.github.io/quantum-serverless/).

> Try out the tutorials on the [IBM Quantum Learning Platform](https://learning.quantum.ibm.com/catalog/tutorials?topics=qiskit-patterns) and explore more of the features of Quantum Serverless in the [documentation](https://qiskit-extensions.github.io/quantum-serverless/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Try out the tutorials in [IBM Quantum Learning](https://learning.quantum.ibm.com/catalog/tutorials?topics=qiskit-patterns) and explore more of the features of Quantum Serverless in the [documentation](https://qiskit-extensions.github.io/quantum-serverless/).
```

<Admonition type="note">
    This is an experimental feature, subject to change.
</Admonition>

> ## Qiskit Patterns

Reviewer 3: I think this heading could be a bit more descriptive, maybe something like:

```suggestion
## Qiskit Patterns with Quantum Serverless
```

Creating utility-scale quantum applications generally requires a variety of compute resource requirements. You can use Quantum Serverless to easily submit quantum workflows for remote, managed execution. These quantum workflows can typically be implemented within a common pattern, called a Qiskit Pattern. A Qiskit Pattern is an intuitive, repeatable set of steps for implementing a quantum computing workflow.

Steps in a Qiskit Pattern:

> 1. Map classical inputs to a quantum problem

Reviewer: step 1 is now "Generate quantum circuits and operators." (generate instead of map)

> 1. Generate classical inputs to a quantum problem

Reviewer: Apologies -- we're back to "map" here:

> Map classical inputs to a quantum problem

> ## Qiskit Patterns with Quantum Serverless
> 
> Creating utility-scale quantum applications generally requires a variety of compute resource requirements. Quantum Serverless can be used to easily submit quantum workflows for remote, managed execution. These quantum workflows can typically be implemented within a common pattern, which we call a Qiskit Pattern. A Qiskit Pattern is an intuitive, repeatable set of steps for implementing a quantum computing workflow.
> 
> Steps in a Qiskit Pattern:
> 
> 1. Map classical inputs to a quantum problem
> 2. Optimize problem for quantum execution
> 3. Execute using Qiskit Runtime primitives
> 4. Post-process, return result in classical format
> 
> Once we have built a Qiskit Pattern, we can use Quantum Serverless to deploy it and submit it for managed execution. Overall, the process of creating quantum software and submitting it for managed execution on a remote cluster can be broken down into 3 steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Qiskit Patterns with Quantum Serverless

Creating utility-scale quantum applications generally requires a variety of compute resource requirements. You can use Quantum Serverless to easily submit quantum workflows for remote, managed execution. These quantum workflows can typically be implemented within a common pattern, called a Qiskit Pattern. A Qiskit Pattern is an intuitive, repeatable set of steps for implementing a quantum computing workflow.

Steps in a Qiskit Pattern:

1. Map classical inputs to a quantum problem
2. Optimize problem for quantum execution
3. Execute using Qiskit Runtime primitives
4. Post-process, return result in classical format

Once you have built a Qiskit Pattern, you can use Quantum Serverless to deploy it and submit it for managed execution. Overall, the process of creating quantum software and submitting it for managed execution on a remote cluster can be broken down into three steps:
```

5. Build the Qiskit Pattern
6. Deploy to the cloud
7. Run the Qiskit Pattern on the cloud

> ## Building a Qiskit Pattern

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Build a Qiskit Pattern
```
across the docs we try to avoid -ing tense

> 5. Build the Qiskit Pattern

Reviewer: For these three steps (build, deploy, run), can we enumerate them with 1, 2, 3

> 6. Deploy to the cloud

Reviewer: to match later subsection title: "Deploy to Quantum Serverless"

> 7. Run the Qiskit Pattern on the cloud

Reviewer: "Run remotely on Quantum Serverless"

Here is an example of computing the expectation value using the Qiskit Runtime Estimator primitive. This Python script should be saved in your working directory. (Warning! All contents of the working directory will be shipped to the cluster for execution.)

```python
# source_files/my_qiskit_pattern.py

from qiskit import transpile
from qiskit.circuit.random import random_circuit
from qiskit.quantum_info import SparsePauliOp
from qiskit_ibm_runtime import QiskitRuntimeService, Estimator
from quantum_serverless import save_result

service = QiskitRuntimeService()
backend = service.least_busy(simulator=False)

> # Step 1: Generate quantum circuits and operators

Reviewer: back to "map"
```
# Step 1: Map classical inputs to a quantum problem
```

> # Step 1: Map the classical input to an abstract circuit and observables

Reviewer: `# Step 1: Generate quantum circuits and operators.`

abstract_circuit = random_circuit(2, 2, seed=1234)
observable = SparsePauliOp("IY")

# Step 2: Optimize the circuit for quantum execution
target_circuit = transpile(abstract_circuit, backend)
target_observable = observable.apply_layout(target_circuit.layout)

# Step 3: Execute the target circuit
estimator = Estimator(backend)
job = estimator.run(target_circuit, target_observable)
result = job.result()

# Step 4: Postprocess the results
print(result)

# save results of program execution
# note: saved items must be serializable
save_result(result.values)
```

> ## Deploying a Qiskit Pattern to Quantum Serverless

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Deploy a Qiskit Pattern to Quantum Serverless
```

)
```

> ## Running a Qiskit Pattern remotely on Quantum Serverless

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Runn a Qiskit Pattern remotely on Quantum Serverless
```

## Migration guide

Qiskit Runtime custom programs can be easily migrated to Quantum Serverless via this [migration guide](https://qiskit-extensions.github.io/quantum-serverless/migration/migration_from_qiskit_runtime_programs.html).

> ## Resource Management (Alpha)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Resource management (alpha)
```
